Welcome Dockett in this lesson we're going to build a shopping list and we're going to build out an
array add items into the array and then once the shopping list is complete once the user doesn't want
to add anything else to the shopping list then we're in the loop through all the items in the shopping
list and put them for the user to be able to see.
So let's let's begin and we're going to use prompt.
So this prompt is going to be.
And we're starting out with a prompt.
What do you want to add.
So put a question mark there.
Anti-coal.
So we're starting out with a prompt.
We're asking the user what do they want to add to the list.
So we also need to create a basic default shopping list.
And this is going to be just plain Karaite for now.
So there we've got our array where we can drop stuff in to our shopping list.
So let's say we need to ask the user that question to What do they want to.
And now let's add the item into the list.
So whatever comes back from I don't know we need to push it into the shopping list.
So let's take what we learned previously was a raise.
So it's a shopping list at a rate where it should be actually push.
So push is that where we're able to push content and we're just doing it on.
So next we need to actually ask the user if they want to continue.
So let's say we do have another prompt or we need to have something else hop in here that we need to
give the user the ability to add multiple items into the shopping list.
So probably the best way to go about this would be to actually create a loop and I initially asked the
user how many items they want to add to the shopping list and that will tell us how many times we need
to loop through this product.
So we initiate it by how many times.
And this one is going to be the prompt So this is going to be our starting prompt.
And we're going to ask how many items would you like to add.
So this way we're establishing what we need and how we can do what we need for a loop.
So this loop variable x and started to notice.
And we're going to loop while it's less than how many times.
And we need a way to increment x.
And this is where we're applying our logic where we're adding to the shopping list.
So are you going to continuously ask and add items.
Am I'm going to declare this variable here.
And then just clean up.
So now we're just going to keep adding items whenever times the user wanted to add.
How many times how many items they want to add.
And we will loop through all those items.
We're adding them into the shopping list and then finally we need to put our shopping lists.
There's a number of options for outputting and I going to use the simple four and my item.
So we set up a value of my item to hold all of the array information and we're going to loop through
of of shopping list and all we need to do now is put to the inner h to your mail and let's add to this
sort of to add the items into our shopping list.
So we're looping through them and let's do the my item and then concatenate it into a line break.
So see what happens.
So refresh it.
How many homes would you like to add three.
What would you like to add.
Banana poll and let's get some milk.
So listen to the list.
And there we go.
So we've got our output.
So essentially this is our shopping list so we can also do something like this where we've got each
one
shopping list.
So just to make it a little bit more neat when we're outputting and refresh.
So how many items would you like to add to.
I'd like to add milk and I'd also like to apples so your shopping list.
Milk and apples.
So what I want you to do is to open up your editor open up your script.
And I want you to break out of this loop.
Asking another prompt and checking to see if this is if the value of an item is no.
I want to stop this loop so it doesn't matter how many times they initially say it we want a way to
break out of this loop because maybe there was a mistake or maybe there's nothing else to add.
So check to see if item is equal to no and then stop the loop.
And then we can continue and put a shopping list at that point.
So pause the video.
Open up your script.
I.
And I'm going to show you the solution coming up.
So we can do a solution with one line of code and we're just going to check to see if item is equal
to.
No.
And if it is then what we're going to do is we're actually going to break out of this so let's
let's try this out or see how this works so save it refresh.
And I want to add 66 items.
So here we go.
I'm going to add some items.
And
OK.
So that's it.
I don't want to add anything else.
I just put.
No.
And we are able to break out of our our shopping list process and we still got our on this.
They're being displayed.
So what the solution.